Pi-hole.md, before:

# Pi-hole
https://pi-hole.net/

## Setup

### Upstream DNS Provider
Unsure of the best one to use, this site provides some description https://www.techradar.com/nz/news/best-dns-server
I have gone with OpenDNS.

### IPv6
If your router used IPv6, then the pi-hole needs to be set to allow this.


If a new router is installed, or has a name or ip address change, then the default route on the Pi-hole may need to be updated.
This can be done 

## Repair or Reset
```console
pihole -r
```

## Diagnosis
```console
pihole -d
```

### Cannot access internet
If the Pi-hole is unable to access the internet, it could be that the gateway has changed, or there has been a change from IPv4 to IPv6.


One possible cause is that the /etc/dhcpcd.conf file has outdated ips in it, if so it will have some values like this:
```
interface eth0
    static ip_address=192.168.0.4/24
    static routers=192.168.0.254
    static domain_name_servers=192.168.0.254 8.8.8.8
```
To fix the dhcpcd.conf delete these lines, then reboot the Pi-hole by running the command
```console
sudo reboot
```

the file /etc/pihole/setupVars.conf may need to be updated to match as well.

## Update
Log into the raspberrypi console and run the command:

```console
pihole -up
```

## Pi-hole Admin Console

The following are possible urls for accessing the Pi-hole Admin Console:
 - [ip6]/admin
 -

Commit message:

Add command for restarting lighttpd

Pi-hole.md, after:

# Pi-hole
https://pi-hole.net/

## Setup

### Upstream DNS Provider
Unsure of the best one to use, this site provides some description https://www.techradar.com/nz/news/best-dns-server
I have gone with OpenDNS.

### IPv6
If your router used IPv6, then the pi-hole needs to be set to allow this.


If a new router is installed, or has a name or ip address change, then the default route on the Pi-hole may need to be updated.
This can be done 

## Repair or Reset
```console
pihole -r
```

## Diagnosis
```console
pihole -d
```

### Cannot access internet
If the Pi-hole is unable to access the internet, it could be that the gateway has changed, or there has been a change from IPv4 to IPv6.


One possible cause is that the /etc/dhcpcd.conf file has outdated ips in it, if so it will have some values like this:
```
interface eth0
    static ip_address=192.168.0.4/24
    static routers=192.168.0.254
    static domain_name_servers=192.168.0.254 8.8.8.8
```
To fix the dhcpcd.conf delete these lines, then reboot the Pi-hole by running the command
```console
sudo reboot
```

the file /etc/pihole/setupVars.conf may need to be updated to match as well.

## Update
Log into the raspberrypi console and run the command:

```console
pihole -up
```

## Pi-hole Admin Console

The following are possible urls for accessing the Pi-hole Admin Console:
 - [ip6]/admin

If the admin console is not working, it may need to be restarted by running
```console
sudo service lighttpd restart
```
